---
title: Cognitive Disabilities | Accessibility Guidelines
---
## Cognitive Disabilities

According to the US Census Bureau, 14.3 million Americans age 15 and over have a mental disability. This includes Alzheimer's disease, senility or dementia, intellectual and learning disabilities, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and autism or autism-spectrum disorders.

Web accessibility is often considered in terms of vision, hearing, and mobility, but for a truly accessible web we must take all users – including those with cognitive disabilities – into account.

The major web accessibility issues for users with cognitive disabilities include:

* Too many object displayed at the same time
* Too much and too difficult text
* Too small text size and too long rows of text
* Lack of logic; e.g. the same action leads to different results, and other issues with the user experience

### Best Practices
To make the web more accessible for users with cognitive disabilities:

* <span class="text-bold">Minimize cognitive load</span>: Don't overwhelm the user. Apply a "less is more" approach.  You will never hear someone complain that a user experience is "too easy."
* <span class="text-bold">Consistency</span>: Ensure that similar user interface elements and similar interactions produce predictably similar results.
* <span class="text-bold">Icons</span>: Use common icons to mark important tasks and consider text labels.
* <span class="text-bold">Typography</span>: Limit the types of font faces in a document. Use only one font, or a very small number of fonts in any single document.
* <span class="text-bold">Timing</span>: Allow the user sufficient time to access and interact with the content. If you have timed content (forms, image galleries, etc.) provide controls or allow users to request more time.
* <span class="text-bold">Forms</span>: Ask users to confirm choices. Use shorter, multi-step forms for complex interactions, rather than lengthy, all-in-one forms.
* <span class="text-bold">Feedback</span>: Provide prompts and feedback to let users know if they made the correct choice and to help them get back on track when they error.


### Tools &amp; Resources
* [Cognitive Accessibility 101 - Part 1: What is Cognitive Accessibility] ('http://jkg3.com/Journal/cognitive-accessibility-101-part-1-what-is-cognitive-accessibility')
