---
title: PDFs | Accessibility Guidelines
---
<h2 class ='page-title'>PDFs</h2>

PDFs can be a convenient way to deliver print documents online, but they remain a challenge to make accessible. Avoid or minimize using PDF files as a sole source of online information because of the difficulty and cost of making PDF files accessible.

### Best Practices
To make PDFs more accessible, consider these recommendations:

* <span class="text-bold">Text-based information</span>: In many cases the information in the PDFs can be converted to HTML content.
* <span class="text-bold">Alternative formats</span>: Consider posting the file in another format, such as Microsoft Word or PowerPoint.
* <span class="text-bold">If a PDF is mandated</span>: Generate a "tagged" PDF from a document source whenever possible. The specific method of doing so will vary on the original file format and the operating system. If you cannot generate an accessible PDF, use the repair tools in Adobe Acrobat to ensure accessibility.
* <span class="text-bold">Link language</span>: Alert users when a link goes to a PDF file, e.g. "Meeting Minutes (PDF)".
* <span class="text-bold">Scanning</span>: If possible, scan material with an OCR (optical character recognition) scanner, which converts a scanned image of text to an actual text file, rather than a series of inaccessible images.

### Tools &amp; Resources
Here are some resources if you want to repair PDFs to be accessible to all users.

* <a href='http://commonlook.com/'>Common Look</a>
* <a href='http://www.adobe.com/accessibility/products/acrobat/training.html'>Adobe Acrobat Accessibility Guides</a>

Here are some PDF authoring tools that provide accessibility support and create tagged PDFs.

* Adobe Acrobat's PDFMaker
* Adobe FrameMaker
* Adobe InDesign
* Adobe LiveCycle Designer
* LibreOffice
* Lotus Symphony Documents
* Microsoft® Word
* OpenOffice.org Writer
* CommonLook Office for Microsoft Office from Netcentric Technologies
* Xenos Axess™ for Accessible Statements
* WordPerfect® Office 
* Microsoft Office 10
